142 Pine St.
Cambridge, MA 02139

February 22, 2008

Jeffrey S. Saltzman, Ph.D.
Senior Director
Applied Computer Science and Mathematics
Merck & Co., Inc.
West Point, PA 19486

Dear Dr. Saltzman,

I am writing in regard to the Ph.D.-level position in Applied Computer
Science & Mathematics Information Technology (INF003308).  Stefan Zajic, 
a colleague of mine from M.I.T. and a pharmacokineticist at your company, 
brought this position to my attention.
I am a Ph.D. candidate in the Chemistry Department at M.I.T., and I
expect to complete my studies in June 2008.
I believe my computational skills and research experience as a
spectroscopist make me an excellent candidate for this position.

A cornerstone of my graduate research is the development of simple
mathematical models to describe the complex and tangled spectra of
molecules.
One example of this is my extension of a spectral
deconvolution method to determine the energy of a mediating
``doorway'' triplet state from a high-resolution spectrum, allowing the
separation of global properties from the statistical properties of the
system.

Building such models has allowed me to apply my interest in
programming to chemical problems.  
To simulate large ensembles of interacting energy levels, I translated 
Fortran routines involving the statistics of random matricies 
to Python.
I wrote much of my thesis work in Python, following standards for 
documentation, unit testing, and source code management.
In addition, my reputation in the department for text processing in Perl 
led to a talk for M.I.T. computational chemists called Perl in the 
Lab in 2006.

I wish to bring my knowledge of chemistry and my computational skills
to Merck & Co., Inc., in order to work alongside other leading
scientists with the mission of improving human health.
One of the things that impresses me about the ACSM department is the
opportunity to collaborate with a variety of people on challenging and
stimulating problems.
I would like to arrange an interview for this position at your
convenience.
Please contact me by email (kyle2@mit.edu) or phone (617-794-3807) to
schedule an interview.  Thank you for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

Kyle Bittinger
